Intro to Substrate MOOC - Module 3 (#97)
w3f/w3f-education: docs/Substrate/section3/explore-pallet-template.md

title: Exploring the pallet template
sidebar_label: Exploring the pallet template
description: Explore the pallet template, and get a sneak peek into what is to come next!
---

We will spend most of our time in the `pallets/connect` folder in the next modules.  Upon opening it, there are a few items of interest, mostly with testing, as well as the actual source code of the pallet.  Again, as mentioned in the last section of this module, this is just a Rust crate that uses FRAME to generate and implement certain traits and structures to be compatible with the runtime.

Our pallet, called `pallet-connect`, defines our custom logic that is then enabled by our runtime within the node template.

## lib.rs

`lib.rs` defines the entry point for the pallet.  It contains all the core logic - extrinsics, events, and errors, are all defined by a single struct:

```rust
#[pallet::pallet]
pub struct Pallet<T>(_);
```

> We will go into more detail on the structure of `lib.rs` later but know for now that this makes a FRAME pallet at the most basic level.  Pallets, just like this one, are later imported as a crate to the runtime, where the aforementioned `construct_runtime!` macro is responsible for defining a runtime based on the collection of pallets and their respective configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will go into more detail on the structure of `lib.rs` later but know for now that this makes a FRAME pallet at the most basic level.  Pallets, just like this one, are later imported as a crate to the runtime, where the aforementioned `construct_runtime!` macro is responsible for defining and constructing a runtime based on the collection of pallets and their respective configurations.
```

## mock.rs and tests.rs

In most pallets, including our template, you will also see the following files: `mock.rs` and `tests.rs`.  As one may assume, they are used for two purposes:

- `mock.rs` is used for configuring a test environment, i.e., a test runtime configured for unit testing.
- `tests.rs` is where unit tests reside and act on the values and configuration defined within `mock.rs`

## benchmarking.rs and weights.rs

> Benchmarking and weights are used to measure an extrinsic's performance, or **weight**.  Substrate is built around the concept of **weight**, where each state change carries how much computation is required to execute it on-chain.  Using benchmarking, `weights.rs` can be generated; a weight can be assigned to each extrinsic.  This weight defines how much a user will pay to execute that state change.

Reviewer: Refining a bit. There could be fee-less blockchains, so weights corresponding to the fees are not a norm but more of a logical thing to do in a decentralized incentivized network. Weights are more helpful in ensuring the Block can be validated within the time window of block production.

```suggestion
Benchmarking and weights measure an extrinsic's performance, or **weight**.  Substrate is built around the concept of **weight**, which measures how much computation is required to execute it on-chain.  Using benchmarking, weight can be assigned to each extrinsic, and the `weights.rs` file is generated.  Often, this weight corresponds to how much a user will pay to execute that state change. Weights also ensure that the transactions within a block can be executed successfully within the block production time window.
```

Author: Great addition and agreed!
